SC-062 Profiles: Address various editorial and content nits (#418)
cabforum/servercert: docs/BR.md

**Country**: Either a member of the United Nations OR a geographic region recognized as a Sovereign State by at least two UN member nations.

> **Cross-Certified Subordinate CA Certificate**: A certificate that is used to establish a trust relationship between two CAs.

Reviewer: Justification for change (for other readers):

```7.1.2.2 says that it applies when creating a cross-sign for either an existing Root CA Certificate or an existing Subordinate CA Certificate. However, the definition of "Cross-Certificated Subordinate CA Certificate" in Section 1.6.1 still just says that it establishes trust "between two Root CAs". I believe the definition should be updated to indicate that it establishes trust between any two CAs, not just between two Root CAs.```

My opinion: I agree, and this also offers better alignment with [RFC 5280](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5280#:~:text=Cross%2Dcertificates%20are%0A%20%20%20CA%20certificates%20in%20which%20the%20issuer%20and%20subject%20are%20different%0A%20%20%20entities.%20%20Cross%2Dcertificates%20describe%20a%20trust%20relationship%20between%0A%20%20%20the%20two%20CAs.)...

```Cross-certificates are
   CA certificates in which the issuer and subject are different
   entities.  Cross-certificates describe a trust relationship between
   the two CAs.  ```

Reviewer 2: I agree with you both that the current definition of "Cross-certified" in the BRs is problematic as it does not align with the RFC 5280 definition.

However, this change should be weighed carefully, as there are explicit carve-outs/allowances for Root<-Root cross-certs in these profiles. For example, I believe this modification would allow any SubCA to not contain the EKU extension.

Author: Hmm, that's a good point. In 1.8.6, the language is:

> For Cross Certificates that share a Subject Distinguished Name and Subject Public Key with a Root Certificate operated in accordance with these Requirements, this extension MAY be present.

So the carve-out is based on it both meeting the criteria for a Cross Certificate **and** sharing a name+key with a Root Certificate. But in this profiles branch, the carve-out is based solely on if the Cross-Certified Subordinate CA is operated internally:

> The acceptable extensions and the requirements for those extensions in a Cross-Certified Subordinate CA vary based on whether or not the Subordinate CA is issued to and operated by the same organization as the Issuing CA or an Affiliate of the Issuing CA organization.

I'm sorry that I haven't followed the development of this profiles ballot closely enough; I'm sure this has been discussed previously. What's the reasoning for this change from "matches a Root" to "is internally operated" for making extKeyUsage a SHOULD instead of a MUST?

Reviewer 3: This is a bit of a mess.  The key factor here is whether the cross certificate crosses an organizational boundary or not.  There's an obvious difference between one organization cross signing CAs internally, and cross signing the CA certificate of another organization, root or otherwise.  There's also the problem we never fixed of the difference between CA Organizations and CA Certificates which always makes reading these things a nightmare.  Is an internally cross sign a CC-S-CA-C?  It depends on whether you read CA=CAC or CA=CAO.  Ick.

The "cross sign between roots" language obviously was written by someone a while back who wasn't thinking about internal cross signs or cross signing ICAs, which honestly was the way most people were thinking back when most of this was written.  We need to be a bit careful to make sure the updates in this area are done carefully.

Author: At the end of the day, the new Cross-Certified Subordinate CA Certificate Profile (7.1.2.2) already says

> This Certificate Profile MAY be used when issuing a CA Certificate using the same Subject Name and Subject Public Key Information as one or more existing CA Certificate(s), whether a Root CA Certificate or Subordinate CA Certificate.

Therefore the bit that @CBonnell objected to (allowing an internally-controlled SubCA to not contain the EKU extension) is _already_ the case in the Profiles ballot. My change to the definition up here doesn't affect that.

If we want to address that, then let's do so, but in the mean time can we harmonize the definition of Cross-Certified Subordinate CA Certificate with the explicit language of the section which concerns it?

Reviewer 2: @aarongable, that's a great call-out, as the allowance on excluding the EKU in a SubCA whose name and SPKI do not correspond to a Root is seemingly a regression in this branch. Additionally, it would still run afoul of MozPol.

IIRC, the intent of the "whether a Root CA Cert or SubCA Cert" was to encompass issuance where the Root CA signs an externally-operated subCA. In this case, it is deemed desirable to enforce EKU constraints on the external entity's CA. As you pointed out, this introduced a seeming regression/defect in the proposed BR language.

Author: By my reading of BR 1.8.6, there are actually three classes of Cross Certificates when it comes to the extKeyUsage extension:
1) matches an existing Root, internally operated: SHOULD have extKeyUsage, MAY contain anyExtendedKeyUsage
2) matches an existing Root, externally operated: SHOULD have extKeyUsage, MUST NOT contain anyExtendedKeyUsage
3) all others: MUST have extKeyUsage, MUST NOT contain anyExtendedKeyUsage

The current version of the Profiles ballot only has two classes:
1) internally operated: SHOULD have extKeyUsage, MAY contain anyExtendedKeyUsage
2) externally operated: MUST have extKeyUsage, MUST NOT contain anyExtendedKeyUsage

So I _think_ the appropriate thing to do here is to
1) Move forward with my change to the definition here; and
2) Update Section 7.1.2.2.3 to re-establish this three-way decision point, probably by reintroducing 1.8.6's "share a Subject Distinguished Name and Subject Public Key with a Root Certificate operated in accordance with these Requirements" language

Reviewer: I attempted to [trace](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17EIAsQRtsPIGmySA78NXqVzF2xtRrwmKlFhZZ4aAPUY/edit?resourcekey=0-fZ4X9wve7FBeTX9wXBhZOA) Version [1.8.6](https://cabforum.org/wp-content/uploads/CA-Browser-Forum-BR-1.8.6.pdf) of the BRs, the [original](https://github.com/cabforum/servercert/compare/2c63814fa7f9f7c477c74a6bfbeb57e0fcc5dd5b..0689ba59dbad9f5d2a5269051e5e0d0d1a25f3f6) set of proposed SC-062 changes, and those also [suggested](https://github.com/cabforum/servercert/pull/418) by @aarongable.

In summary, I agree with Aaron and think changes could be made to ensure consistency with the existing BRs for externally operated scenarios (“_matches an existing Root, externally operated: SHOULD have extKeyUsage, MUST NOT contain anyExtendedKeyUsage_”).

**Suggested updates for consistency with 1.8.6 (additive to Aaron’s [proposed changes](https://github.com/cabforum/servercert/pull/418)):**

- 7.1.2.2.3 (Cross-Certified Subordinate CA Extensions):
     - Update the third table describing “the extKeyUsage extension when the Subordinate CA is operated by an entity that is not the Issuing CA or an Affiliate of the Issuing CA” to change extKeyUsage *MUST* to *SHOULD*  

- 7.1.2.2.5 (Extended Key Usage - Restricted Cross-Certified CA):
     - Add clarification: “Restricted Cross-Certified CA Certificates that will be used to issue TLS certificates MUST contain the key purpose id-kp-serverAuth.”

This would allow Cross Certificates issued to externally operated roots to optionally include EKU (consistent with Version 1.8.6), while also constraining Cross Certificates to externally operated ICAs that issue TLS certificates to minimally require serverAuth.

@aarongable do you see it the same way?

**General comment**: the Chrome Root Program policy requires hierarchies accepted into the Chrome Root Store after 9/1/2022 (program launch date) to be [dedicated to TLS use cases](https://www.chromium.org/Home/chromium-security/root-ca-policy/#4-dedicated-tls-pki-hierarchies). The absence of EKU in a subordinate CA certificate chaining to a root added to the Chrome Root Store after 9/1/2022 would be a violation of the Chrome Root Program Policy. 

While we prefer extKeyUsage as a *MUST* in all non-root CA certificates, not all CAs following the BRs intend to be included in the Chrome Root Store.

Reviewer: **Update:** As I re-read my last comment, I now realize I missed something.

**BRs Version 1.8.6, 7.1.2.2 G:** 
- "For Cross Certificates that share a Subject Distinguished Name and Subject Public Key with a Root Certificate operated in accordance with these Requirements, this extension [EKU] MAY be present."
- (continues) "This extension MAY contain the anyExtendedKeyUsage [RFC5280] usage, if the Root Certificate(s) associated with this Cross Certificate are operated by the same organization as the issuing Root Certificate."

**I interpret this to imply**: "Cross Certificates issued to Root CAs NOT operated by the same organization as the issuing Root Certificate MUST NOT contain the anyExtendedKeyUsage [RFC5280] usage [or the equivalent of not defining any EKUs]."

To that end, I think my comments above re: changes to 7.1.2.2.3 (Cross-Certified Subordinate CA Extensions) are incorrect - and the only proposed changes should be to 7.1.2.2.5, now suggested as follows:

**7.1.2.2.5 (Extended Key Usage - Restricted Cross-Certified CA):**
- Remove "If present" from "If present, the Extended Key Usage extension MUST only contain key usage purposes for which the Issuing CA has verified the Cross-Certified Subordinate CA is authorized to assert."
- Add clarification: “Restricted Cross-Certified CA Certificates that will be used to issue TLS certificates MUST contain the key purpose id-kp-serverAuth.”

Reviewer 4: @ryancdickson , regarding:

> The absence of EKU in a subordinate CA certificate chaining to a root added to the Chrome Root Store after 9/1/2022 would be a violation of the Chrome Root Program Policy

What is the purpose of requiring an EKU in CA Certificates if the entire hierarchy is restricted to TLS (at the Trust Anchor level)? It adds bytes on the wire for each TLS handshake and brings no security benefit. If I remember correctly, the purpose of adding that EKU was to restrict applicable policies in multi-purpose hierarchies. If the hierarchy is TLS-only, I don't see any reason to require this EKU for CA Certificates.

When creating cross-certificates to multi-purpose Roots, then it makes more sense to further restrict via EKU.

Reviewer: @dzacharo

The statement “If the hierarchy is restricted to TLS (at the Trust Anchor level)” might assume there is a capability to distinguish the hierarchical restriction by the verifier outside of the content included in the root CA certificate. For Application Software Suppliers, or their corresponding customers, that do not or can not use metadata, I’m not aware of any content within the root CA certificate alone that would strongly signal how the hierarchy should be constrained (to be clear, I do not consider including “TLS” in the subject DN a strong signal).  

Regardless of specific Application Software Supplier implementations, it would seem the BRs (existing today and the proposed update) agree with our program policy that EKU is required on subordinate CA certificates with one exception (cross certificates whose represented issuer and subject CAs are both roots and operated by the same organization - described below).

BRs Section 1.8.6, 7.1.2.2 (Subordinate CA Certificate), Part G: "_For all other Subordinate CA Certificates, including Technically Constrained Subordinate CA Certificates: This extension MUST be present and SHOULD NOT be marked critical._"

The only subordinate CA certificates described prior to the above statement are:
- cross certificates whose represented issuer and subject CAs are (A) both roots and (B) operated by the same organization; and
- cross certificates whose represented issuer and subject CAs are (A) both roots and (B) operated by different organizations. 

As to why I think cross certificates whose represented issuer and subject CAs are (A) both roots and (B) operated by different organizations require an explicit EKU:

(1) BRs Section 1.8.6, 7.1.2.2 (Subordinate CA Certificate), Part G states: "This extension MAY contain the anyExtendedKeyUsage [RFC5280] usage, if the Root Certificate(s) associated with this Cross Certificate are operated by the same organization as the issuing Root Certificate."

(2) If we imagined three identical certificates with only the following differences: 

- Certificate Number 1: expresses no EKU
- Certificate Number 2: expresses an EKU with a purpose of anyExtendedKeyUsage 
- Certificate Number 3: expresses the set of all known EKUs (if this was possible)

How would an RFC 5280-compliant certificate verifier (if we can use such a term) treat them? If EKU (Section 4.2.1.12) of 5280 “indicates one or more purposes for which the certified public key may be used, in addition to or in place of the basic purposes indicated in the key usage extension” my interpretation is that they should be treated the same (i.e., they are “operationally” equivalent). 

(3) only cross certificates where issuer/subject are operated by the same organization are permitted to include anyEKU (i.e., number 1), or by transitive property, express no EKU (i.e., number 2).

(4) If it was intended that cross certificates issued to external CAs did not require an explicit set of EKUs, the same exception allowing anyEKU described above (i.e., number 1) would have been made.

[1] Footnote on Pg. 75 of [Version 1.8.6 of the BRs](https://cabforum.org/wp-content/uploads/CA-Browser-Forum-BR-1.8.6.pdf): "While RFC 5280, Section 4.2.1.12 notes that this extension will generally only appear within end-entity certificates, these Requirements make use of this extension to further protect relying parties by limiting the scope of CA Certificates, as implemented by a number of Application Software Suppliers."

Hopefully this also more clearly describes the position in my [earlier](https://github.com/cabforum/servercert/pull/418#discussion_r1100357819) comment.

Reviewer 4: I am not challenging what the current BRs say or what the current Root Store policies says. My comment is about native TLS hierarchies. Non-Browser implementations don't check the EKU at the CA level anyway. In the future, if there were native TLS hierarchies, including the EKU extension in a CA doesn't "further protect relying parties" because they are protected by the actual design of the "nativeness" of the hierarchy.

So, if a CA knows that it manages such a native TLS hierarchy, perhaps it would make sense to consider removing that requirement in the future at the CA level, because it doesn't add any benefits, but leave it for hierarchies that are mixed.

Anyway, my comment was mostly about Google Chrome's Policy which is TLS-only and already pushing for native TLS hierarchies.

> #### 7.1.2.1 Root CA Certificate Profile

Reviewer: Justification for changes (in this Section):

```
- GitHub-flavored markdown does not support 2^159^ for exponentiation. Consider Unicode SUPERSCRIPT numerals (i.e. 2¹⁵⁹)?

- GitHub-flavored markdown does not support \ \ \ \ inside tables for indentation. Consider Unicode non-breaking figure spaces (i.e.     foo)?```

My opinion: Looks good to me, table appears to render fine.

|     `version`              | MUST be v3(2) |
|     `serialNumber`         | MUST be a non-sequential number greater than zero (0) and less than 2¹⁵⁹ containing at least 64 bits of output from a CSPRNG. |
|     `signature`            | See [Section 7.1.3.2](#7132-signature-algorithmidentifier) |
|     `issuer`               | Encoded value MUST be byte-for-byte identical to the encoded `subject` |
|     `validity`             | See [Section 7.1.2.1.1](#71211-root-ca-validity) |
|     `subject`              | See [Section 7.1.2.10.2](#712102-ca-certificate-naming) |
|     `subjectPublicKeyInfo` | See [Section 7.1.3.1](#7131-subjectpublickeyinfo) |
|     `issuerUniqueID`       | MUST NOT be present |
|     `subjectUniqueID`      | MUST NOT be present |
|     `extensions`           | See [Section 7.1.2.1.2](#71212-root-ca-extensions) |
| `signatureAlgorithm`       | Encoded value MUST be byte-for-byte identical to the `tbsCertificate.signature`. |
| `signature`                | |

##### 7.1.2.1.1 Root CA Validity

| __Field__   | __Minimum__ | __Maximum__ |
| -           | ----        | ----        |
| `notBefore` | One day prior to the time of signing | The time of signing |

> | `notAfter`  | 2922 days (approx. 8 years)  | 9132 days (approx. 25 years) |

Reviewer: Justification for change: 

```Use of "e.g." to mean "approximately" in "2922 days (e.g. 8 years)" is not appropriate. Consider using "approx." instead.```

Comment: Agree. Fully spelling out "approximately" might be helpful for non-native English speakers.

| Signed Certificate Timestamp List | MAY             | N            | See [Section 7.1.2.11.3](#712113-signed-certificate-timestamp-list) |
| Any other extension               | NOT RECOMMENDED | -            | See [Section 7.1.2.11.5](#712115-other-extensions) |

> ##### 7.1.2.1.3 Root CA Authority Key Identifier

Reviewer: Justification for change: ```-7.1.2.1.1 has the name "Root CA Validity", but 7.1.2.1.3 just has the name "Authority Key Identifier". Either both of these should be prefaced with "Root CA" to disambiguate them from sections regarding the same fields but for other certificate types, or neither of these should be prefaced with "Root CA" as that qualifier is implied by being under section 7.1.2.1 Root CA Certificate Profile. The same applies to many other subsection titles.```

Comment: Agree with these changes.

| __Field__                   | __Description__ |
| ---                         | ------- |
| `keyIdentifier`             | MUST be present. MUST be identical to the `subjectKeyIdentifier` field. |
| `authorityCertIssuer`       | MUST NOT be present |
| `authorityCertSerialNumber` | MUST NOT be present |

> ##### 7.1.2.1.4 Root CA Basic Constraints

Reviewer: Same as above comment (both regarding change justification and my opinion of the change).

> ##### 7.1.2.2.3 Cross-Certified Subordinate CA Extensions

Reviewer: Justification for below changes in this section:

```- In 7.1.2.2.3, the tables only differ in one row. I believe it would be beneficial to readers to make the first table apply to all Subordinate CA Certificates, and then follow it with a single-row table that overrides that one row for the case that the Subordinate CA is operated externally.```

Comment: I think this approach works. Some readers might prefer an explicit listing for each certificate type in an effort to avoid confusion, but I personally favor the new format.

| `extKeyUsage`                     | SHOULD[^eku_ca] | N                     | See [Section 7.1.2.2.4](#71224-extended-key-usage---unrestricted-affiliated-cross-certified-ca) |

Table: The extKeyUsage extension when the Subordinate CA is operated by an entity that is not the Issuing CA or an Affiliate of the Issuing CA.

| __Extension__                     | __Presence__    | __Critical__          | __Description__ |
| ----                              | -               | -                     | ----- |
| `extKeyUsage`                     | MUST[^eku_ca]   | N                     | See [Section 7.1.2.2.5](#71225-extended-key-usage---restricted-cross-certified-ca) |

[^eku_ca]: While [RFC 5280, Section 4.2.1.12](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5280#section-4.2.1.13) notes that this extension will generally only appear within end-entity certificates, these Requirements make use of this extension to further protect relying parties by limiting the scope of CA Certificates, as implemented by a number of Application Software Suppliers.

[^name_constraints]: See [Section 7.1.2.10.8](#712108-name-constraints) for further requirements, including regarding criticality of this extension.

> ##### 7.1.2.2.4 Cross-Certified Subordinate CA Extended Key Usage - Unrestricted Affiliated

Reviewer: Justification for change: 

```7.1.2.1.1 has the name "Root CA Validity", but 7.1.2.1.3 just has the name "Authority Key Identifier". Either both of these should be prefaced with "Root CA" to disambiguate them from sections regarding the same fields but for other certificate types, or neither of these should be prefaced with "Root CA" as that qualifier is implied by being under section 7.1.2.1 Root CA Certificate Profile. The same applies to many other subsection titles.```

Comment: Agree with promoting consistency across section names.

Alternatively, if the Issuing CA does not use this form, then the Extended Key Usage extension MUST be encoded as specified in [Section 7.1.2.2.5, Extended Key Usage - Restricted Cross-Certified CA](#71225-extended-key-usage---restricted-cross-certified-ca).

> ##### 7.1.2.2.5 Cross-Certified Subordinate CA Extended Key Usage - Restricted

Reviewer: Same as above.

| Signed Certificate Timestamp List | MAY             | N                     | See [Section 7.1.2.11.3](#712113-signed-certificate-timestamp-list) |
| Any other extension               | NOT RECOMMENDED | -                     | See [Section 7.1.2.11.5](#712115-other-extensions) |

##### 7.1.2.5.2 Technically Constrained TLS Subordinate CA Name Constraints

For a TLS Subordinate CA to be Technically Constrained, Name Constraints extension MUST be encoded as follows. As an explicit exception from RFC 5280, this extension SHOULD be marked critical, but MAY be marked non-critical if compatability with certain legacy applications that do not support Name Constraints is necessary.

Table: `nameConstraints` requirements

| __Field__             | __Description__ |
| --                    | -------         |

> | `permittedSubtrees`   | The `permittedSubtrees` MUST contain at least one `GeneralSubtree` for both of the `dNSName` and `iPAddress` `GeneralName` name types, UNLESS the specified `GeneralName` name type appears within the `excludedSubtrees` to exclude all names of that name type. Additionally, the `permittedSubtrees` MUST contain at least one `GeneralSubtree` of the `directoryName` `GeneralName` name type. |

Author: Ah, I see. I was interpreting 1.8.6's "for each" language as allowing 0 entries of each type, but I now understand that the preceding "MUST include... constraints on dNSName, iPAddress, **and** DirectoryName" (emphasis added) means that there must be at least one entry of each type. Thanks!

| `authorityKeyIdentifier`          | MUST            | N            | See [Section 7.1.2.11.1](#712111-authority-key-identifier) |
| `certificatePolicies`             | MUST            | N            | See [Section 7.1.2.7.9](#71279-certificate-policies) |
| `extKeyUsage`                     | MUST            | N            | See [Section 7.1.2.7.10](#712710-extended-key-usage) |

> | `subjectAltName`                  | MUST            | *            | See [Section 7.1.2.7.12](#712712-subject-alternative-name) |

Reviewer: Justification for change:

```- In 7.1.2.7.6, a dash (-) is used to indicate that the criticality of the subjectAltName extension depends on other factors. However, in earlier tables for CA certificate extensions (e.g. 7.1.2.2.3), an asterisk and footnote is used to indicate that the criticality depends on other factors. These should use the same notation as each other. I personally think the best notation is simply an asterisk, with all additional context provided in the "See Section X" section.```

Comment: Agree with change (consistency)

| `subjectKeyIdentifier`            | NOT RECOMMENDED | N            | See [Section 7.1.2.11.4](#712114-subject-key-identifier) |
| Any other extension               | NOT RECOMMENDED | -            | See [Section 7.1.2.11.5](#712115-other-extensions) |

**Note**: whether or not the `subjectAltName` extension should be marked Critical depends on the contents of the Certificate's `subject` field, as detailed in [Section 7.1.2.7.12](#712712-subject-alternative-name).

##### 7.1.2.7.7 Subscriber Certificate Authority Information Access

> The `AuthorityInfoAccessSyntax` MUST contain one or more `AccessDescription`s. Each `AccessDescription` MUST only contain a permitted `accessMethod`, as detailed below, and each `accessLocation` MUST be encoded as the specified `GeneralName` type.

Reviewer: Justification for change: 

```
- 7.1.2.7.7 refers to "AuthorityInformationAccessSyntax", but the ASN.1 type declared in RFC 5280 Section 4.2.2.1 is actually "AuthorityInfoAccessSyntax". The same in 7.1.2.10.3.
Section 7.1.2.7.9 says other policy identifiers "MUST be defined by the CA". What if the policy identifier is defined by a different CA, which cross-signed the issuing CA and requires this policy identifier as part of that cross-sign contract?
```

Confirming 5280 naming is "[AuthorityInfoAccessSyntax](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5280#:~:text=pe%2DauthorityInfoAccess%20OBJECT%20IDENTIFIER%20%3A%3A%3D%20%7B%20id%2Dpe%201%20%7D-,AuthorityInfoAccessSyntax%20%20%3A%3A%3D,-SEQUENCE%20SIZE%20(1..MAX)%20OF%20AccessDescription%0A%0A%20%20%20AccessDescription)."

| `directoryName`             | N             | -              |
| `ediPartyName`              | N             | -              |
| `uniformResourceIdentifier` | N             | -              |

> | `iPAddress`                 | Y             | The entry MUST contain the IPv4 or IPv6 address that the CA has confirmed the Applicant controls or has been granted the right to use through a method specified in [Section 3.2.2.5](#3225-authentication-for-an-ip-address). The entry MUST NOT contain a Reserved IP Address. |

Reviewer: Justification for change: 

```In 7.1.2.7.12, the table entry for dnsName uses sentences phrased "The entry MUST", but the iPAddress table entry uses sentences which simply start "MUST ...". These should use similar phrasing.```

Comment: Agree (consistency is important).

| `cA`                | MUST be FALSE |
| `pathLenConstraint` | MUST NOT be present |

> **Note**: Due to DER encoding rules regarding the encoding of DEFAULT values within OPTIONAL fields, a `basicConstraints` extension that sets the `cA` boolean to FALSE MUST have an `extnValue` `OCTET STRING` which is exactly the hex-encoded bytes `0500`, the encoded representation of the ASN.1 `NULL` value.

Reviewer: Justification for change: 

```- 7.1.2.8.4 includes a note regarding DER encoding of optional fields which take their default value. It seems odd to include this under Delegated OCSP Responder Certs but not under - 7.1.2.7.8 Subscriber Certificate Basic Constraints, which has the same table. Also, is there a reason that this note doesn't simply say that, in this case, the extension must have the value NULL? Why is deriving this left as an exercise for the reader?```

Comment: I think this clarification is helpful to readers.

> **Note**: Due to DER encoding rules regarding the encoding of DEFAULT values within OPTIONAL fields, a `basicConstraints` extension that sets the `cA` boolean to FALSE MUST have an `extnValue` `OCTET STRING` which is exactly the hex-encoded bytes `0500`, the encoded representation of the ASN.1 `NULL` value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: Due to DER encoding rules regarding the encoding of DEFAULT values within OPTIONAL fields, a `basicConstraints` extension that sets the `cA` boolean to FALSE MUST have an `extnValue` `OCTET STRING` which is exactly the hex-encoded bytes `3000`, the encoded representation of an empty ASN.1 `SEQUENCE` value.
```

##### 7.1.2.8.5 OCSP Responder Extended Key Usage

| __Key Purpose__                    | __OID__                 | __Presence__ |
| ----                               | ----                    | -            |
| `id-kp-OCSPSigning`                | 1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.9       | MUST         |
| Any other value                    | -                       | MUST NOT     |

##### 7.1.2.8.6 OCSP Responder id-pkix-ocsp-nocheck

The CA MUST include the `id-pkix-ocsp-nocheck` extension (OID: 1.3.6.1.5.5.7.48.1.5).

> This extension MUST have an `extnValue` `OCTET STRING` which is exactly the hex-encoded bytes `0500`, the encoded representation of the ASN.1 NULL value, as specified in [RFC 6960, Section 4.2.2.2.1](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6960#section-4.2.2.2.1).

Reviewer: Justification for change:

```- Speaking of which, 7.1.2.8.6 and 7.1.2.9.3 use very different language to describe the ocsp-nocheck and precertificate-poison extensions having the value NULL. These should use the same language as each other.```

Comment: Consistency and clarification are an improvement.

|     `validity`             | Encoded value MUST be byte-for-byte identical to the `validity` field of the Certificate |
|     `subject`              | Encoded value MUST be byte-for-byte identical to the `subject` field of the Certificate |
|     `subjectPublicKeyInfo` | Encoded value MUST be byte-for-byte identical to the `subjectPublicKeyInfo` field of the Certificate |
|     `issuerUniqueID`       | Encoded value MUST be byte-for-byte identical to the `issuerUniqueID` field of the Certificate, or omitted if omitted in the Certificate |
|     `subjectUniqueID`      | Encoded value MUST be byte-for-byte identical to the `subjectUniqueID` field of the Certificate, or omitted if omitted in the Certificate |
|     `extensions`           | See [Section 7.1.2.9.2](#71292-precertificate-ca-issued-precertificate-profile-extensions) |
| `signatureAlgorithm`       | Encoded value MUST be byte-for-byte identical to the `tbsCertificate.signature`. |
| `signature`                | |

> **Note**: This profile requires that the `serialNumber` field of the Precertificate be identical to that of the corresponding Certificate. [RFC 5280, Section 4.1.2.2](https://tools.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5280#section-4.1.2.2) requires that the `serialNumber` of certificates be unique. For the purposes of this document, a Precertificate shall not be considered a "certificate" subject to that requirement, and thus may have the same `serialNumber` of the corresponding Certificate. However, this does not permit two Precertificates to share the same `serialNumber`, unless they correspond to the same Certificate, as this would otherwise indicate there are two corresponding Certificates that share the same `serialNumber`.

Reviewer: Justification for change: 

``Section 7.1.2.9 says that "two Precertificates [cannot] share the same serialNumber, unless they are byte-for-byte identical, as this would otherwise indicate that there are corresponding Certificates that share the same serialNumber". I admit that this is a bizarre corner case, but: what if an Issuing CA has two Technically Constrained Precertificate Signing CAs? They could each issue a Precertificate with all of the same fields except for the Issuer field and authorityKeyIdentifier extension. But the Precertificate<->Certificate transformation would wipe out those changes, indicating that both Precertificates correspond to the same Certificate, and thus no violation of the serialNumber uniqueness constraint has occurred. Maybe nothing needs to change here, but maybe it's worth workshopping this language to avoid this confusion.```

Comment: No issues with this change.

##### 7.1.2.11.2 CRL Distribution Points

> If present, the CRL Distribution Points extension MUST contain at least one `DistributionPoint`; containing more than one is NOT RECOMMENDED. All `DistributionPoint` items must be formatted as follows:

Reviewer: Justification for change:

```The tables in 7.1.2.11.2 seem confusing. Personally, I would include tables profiling the inner DistributionPoint and uniformResourceIdentifier objects, and use non-tabulated language to describe the fact that including more than one entry in the outer CRLDistributionPoints and fullName objects is NOT RECOMMENDED.```

Comment: I think this reads well and maintains the original intent of the tabular format.

Table: `DistributionPoint` profile

| __Field__           | __Presence__    | __Description__ |
| ---                 | --              | ------          |
| `distributionPoint` | MUST            | The `DistributionPointName` MUST be a `fullName` formatted as described below. |
| `reasons`           | MUST NOT        |                 |
| `cRLIssuer`         | MUST NOT        |                 |

> A `fullName` MUST contain at least one `GeneralName`; it MAY contain more than one. All `GeneralName`s MUST be of type `uniformResourceIdentifier`, and the scheme of each MUST be "http". The first `GeneralName` must contain the HTTP URL of the Issuing CA's CRL service for this certificate.

Reviewer: Justification for change:

```Section 7.1.2.11.2 uses different language to describe the first uniformResourceIdentifier and subsequent uniformResourceIdentifiers in a fullName. In particular, the emphasis of the "MUST be http" in the 2+ section makes it seem like HTTP is not a MUST for the first entry.```

Comment: Change looks good to me.

> | `organizationalUnitName` | `2.5.4.11` | [RFC 5280](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5280) | MUST use `UTF8String` or `PrintableString` | 32 |

Reviewer 5: Is the max length of the OU field 32 or 64 characters? RFC5280 defines ub-organizational-unit-name INTEGER ::= 64

| `commonName`             | `2.5.4.3`  | [RFC 5280](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5280) | MUST use `UTF8String` or `PrintableString` | 64 |

> [^surname_givenname]: **Note**: Although RFC 5280 specifies the upper bound as 32,768 characters, this was a transcription error from X.520 (08/2005). The effective (interoperable) upper bound is 64 characters.

Reviewer: Justification for change:

```- The [^surname_givenname] footnote entry needs to be followed by a colon (i.e. [^surname_givenname]:) to be properly linked and rendered by GitHub-flavored markdown.
```
Comment: Thanks for catching this.
